---
date: 2019-05-10T09:41:47.293Z
title: My First Blog Post
description: A little background and context about me
tags:
  - aboutme
  - biography
image: ''
---
Hello everyone,

My name is Adnan and my cooking journey started about when I was in elementary school, in my early teens. Unlike most, I started cooking due to a need of sports nutrition and my demanding appetite for good food, cooked right.

As I couldn't satisfy my appetite or my needs for proper nutrition at my household since my mom  eats way too healthy and our dinner options were soup and a salad or veggies and a salad. Though she was/is wonder woman when it comes to anything but cooking, she just didn't have time to cook while taking care of two young boys and managing a company. Therefore I started taking matters into my own hands and I had unintentionally found my lifelong passion. 

At this point I have to mention that my dad is an extremely good and meticulous cook and I probably looked up to him as well since to this day I have not had a better risotto, creme brûlée or hot and sour soup than the ones he used to make, once or twice (if we are lucky) a year for guests only. He was such a perfectionist that I remember him getting ready for a dinner party a week before, by browsing through countless cookbooks in our house, choosing the perfect recipes at least T-5 days, making actual Gantt charts to be explained to his sous chef at least T-3 days, shopping for non-fresh ingredients and prepping a day before and buying fresh fish the last day and then meticulously cooking every recipe to the point of measuring salt with tablespoons. Though this was all a little extreme, it did produce magnificent results and though I am the opposite of my dad when it comes to cooking that I rely purely on intuition and have never followed a recipe unless I am baking, his Gantt charts and perfect mise en place did teach me one of the most important lessons in cooking, at least for dinner parties, which is timing. 

Contrary to my dad, when I started cooking, I cooked every day and I was making very simple dishes such as steaks, pasta and one of my dirty pleasures to this day, hot dogs. As I started making hot dogs for my neighbour and started getting praise for how good they were I gradually started making more intricate dishes such as risottos and steaks accompanied by sauces such as red wine reduction, peppercorn and mushroom to name a few of my favourites. I realised that cooking wasn't so hard therefore I started cooking for my friends for special occasions and got reaffirmed that I was quite good at it. 

I kept cooking at university, again due to need, since I had left my hometown of Istanbul and was studying in small towns in England :) After I start posting recipes, maybe one day I will make an homage to my dorm-room days by posting a couple of George Foreman grill recipes, which was my only other cooking tool than a microwave. 

After graduating, I started living and working in a coastal city in Turkey called Antalya and even though Antalya has some of the best fresh produce and fish in Turkey therefore filled with great restaurants and a long history of unique food culture, since I had just started working on close to minimum wage, I just couldn't afford to eat out as much as I would have liked to. I used to love to  go to the farmers market and find the best quality/price tomatoes, buy fresh small anchovies and make them into thousands of different dishes or waking up at 0430 in the morning to go to the local fish auction and buy a case of shrimps weighing in at 8,5 kgs costing a mere 60TL that would have otherwise have costed a fortune. Btw, short note here, the only way I know to get rid of the smell of a case of fish from a car is leaving a burnt pan of coffee inside the car for a while. Do it at your own risk please as I am sure you can burn down your car in the process. My work in Antalya was supposed to be a 3 month internship that turned into 2,5 years after which I moved back to Istanbul for a short while before moving onto the city of Bar in Montenegro.

Meanwhile in the city of Bar, where there were no bars at the time and then a club called \`Illusion\` opened up to close down very shortly after just for the irony of it, there were not many good restaurants as well. By this time, I was cooking better pizza at home than the local pizzeria and my best bet for good food required me to drive at least 45 minutes to, the capital named Podgorica, south to Ada Bojana at the border of Albania for the best ever price/quality seafood or north to Budva which is the main seasonal tourist attracting city of Montenegro. I have managed to live here for 2,5 years and as my friend there was a butcher/salsa teacher, I managed to learn to dance while buying the best meat in the city teaching the butcher how to cook steak :) True story, once we were in a hurry and I was about to heat up the pan to cook up a young kettles fillet mignon saved up for me bought from her brother as she told me to go take my shower as she cooks the meat. I started explaining her how to cook the meat as I knew she was not a good cook, and then she stopped me and asked "are you trying to teach a butcher how to cook steak" and gave me the look. I realized I was being silly and took my shower. I returned to a grey fillet mignon soup served in its own juices that were meant to stay inside but due to the non heated pan cried and bled itself onto the pan... I was never refunded for the meat :) 

After Montenegro, the 6th smallest country in Europe based on population, I made the decision to move to the 4th smallest country in Europe, Malta. Thankfully due to the size of this island, even though the population was still much smaller than what I was accustomed to being raised in Istanbul, it felt like large city rather than a small and scarcely populated country. I got ridiculously lucky in this chapter of my life as my real estate agent turned out to be one of the coolest guys on the island, which is still one of my best friends, and introduced me to all his friends which is very close knit international group of extremely wonderful people who have welcomed me right away. Though there will be separate blog posts about every beautiful city I have lived in, I have to mention that in Malta, you either have world class fast food or very decent Italian cuisine for decent prices both of which past the age of 25 are not very healthy if you wish to keep in shape. There is very good local cuisine and some over-priced and outdated fine dining along with some of the best fish restaurants but again you have to pay up. So again, I had to do a whole lot of cooking to keep my refined taste buds satisfied.

Short story here, at some point from Malta, I had a family vacation to go to Monte Carlo to see the old cars race. We had booked a Michelin starred restaurant and I was extremely excited as it was going to be my first Michelin starred restaurant visit. I was driving my parents and my uncle crazy as to how excited I was about eating there and told them that I was very curious to one day see the kitchen of a   starred restaurant. So the first thing my uncle did when we sat down was call the waiter and tell him \`my nephew here is a michelin starred chef in Paris and wants to visit your kitchen\` :) I was shocked! The waiter politely told us to give him a couple of minutes to ask the chef if it was possible. Believe it or not, 5 minutes later I was invited to their kitchen with the executive chef greeting me and taking me on a tour of their kitchen which included 5 different stations from the bakery to plating. I dont ever remember sweating so much and feeling like an undercover spy at the same time. I remember the executive chef showing me a single leaf of crystallised parsley leaf. It looked like a shiny snow flake. As he was explaining to me how they made it, I remember nodding my head and saying \`Yeah, thats how we do it in my restaurant as well\` 

Following Malta, I moved to Barcelona, probably my favourite city in the world which has an extremely rich food culture, home to some of the best chefs in the world alive today and is the most touristic city of the country where most believe the gastronomical revolution of the 21st century is taking place right now. This is where you meet me, for the purposes of this blog, a very very good place where the hardest question before every meal is, do I go to the market and buy some of the best fresh ingredients in the world or do I go out and eat at some of the best restaurants in the world.

Thanking all of my future readers in advance,

Adnan

test october 22
